Again your mileage may vary, but
here are some of the ways that I was able
to implement some of these functions.
Again, you can find this as a fork of
the exercise notebook by clicking on
that 1 fork at the top of the exercise.
So this pipeline function,
how are we gonna do it?
We can use recursion, our bff now that
we are functional programmers and
we can start out with some base cases.
So we can say, look, I have some
unknown number of functions here.
And we're using JavaScript spread
syntax dot dot dot to spread out
however many functions we have, we're
gonna kind of get an array of functions.
It could be two, it could be one,
it could be five, it could be bajillions.
We're gonna take that functions array and
see.
If there's nothing in it,
cool we don't have anything to do,
the input is going to be unchanged.
There's no operations.
If there's one thing in it,
then we're gonna return a simple
function which is going to take
whatever input we pass in.
It's gonna take the first thing
out of the functions array,
which only has one thing in it.
So this is a little bit just basically
like accessing the first element of that
array, the only element and
then call that on the input.
But then in the more interesting,
perhaps in the recursive case,
we're going to return a new function
which takes in whatever input and
we're going to return a recursive
application of the pipeline function.
Where?
We are going to create
a pipeline from the tail,
the rest of those functions.
We're gonna get the tail
those functions and
pass those in to the pipeline function.
And that is gonna give us kind
of the rest of the pipeline
which then we can pass in
whatever the transformation
was on the input that the first element
of our functions array wants to make.
So similarly to how if we only have
one function that we're putting
into our pipeline here,
we're going to apply whatever function
is at the head of functions, apply it or
call it on input, pass input into it.
That's what we're doing here.
We get whatever the result of that is.
That output becomes the input
to the rest of our pipeline.
So what we've done is again we've
kind of recursively chopped off
the first thing that we need
to do in our pipeline so
that then we get a full pipeline of all of
the transformations that we need to make.
And so now once we've implemented that,
we should see that once we've defined all
of our little single element functions
here, I can then pipeline them like this.
Where first the input will go through
exclaim, then it will go through heart,
then it will go through pluralize.
Oops, excuse me, that's the wrong order.
First it'll go [LAUGH] through pluralize,
then it'll go through heart, then it'll
go through exclaim so that I get the
correct output of I heart pipelines, yay.
And similarly,
we wanna make sure that order matters.
So later we can double check that if I
pass in those arguments in the wrong
order, those functions in the wrong order,
pipeline doesn't know.
It's just gonna apply them in
whatever order I pass them in.
And so hopefully this is a little
bit more readable than if we
were to to pass in
the result of each function,
if we were to have something like okay,
first apply pluralize,
And then take that and
pass it into heart in this case and
then take that, excuse me,
pass it into explain.
In this case, I kind of have to read the
series of operations backwards as it were.
I kind of have to read from the inside
out to know that pluralize is gonna get
applied first, and
then heart, and then explain.
So in my pipeline helper now,
I now have an easier way to compose these
functions together more readably so
I can see kind of in reading order
where the data is gonna flow through.
Make sense?
>> Is this kind of the concept
of Unix pipes where
you just pipe standard out into
the next program so again?
>> Is this like the concept of Unix
pipes where you can pipe the output
of one command on the command line,
pipe it into another command?
Yes, it is sort of similar to that.
You could create this kind of pipeline
where the output from one function
flows in to the next function.
It's a very similar concept
to piping things from one
command into the next
on a Unix command line.
Great point.
Okay.
How about the reduced pipeline,
was anybody able to get to this?
So you again, your mileage may vary.
But what's interesting is that
with our reduced function,
we can actually condense this down.
We can take whatever
functions are coming in,
return a new function which takes input.
And calls reduce on our little function
that is going to take an accumulator,
which is basically going
to be our output so far.
And the next function to apply,
the next function to call on that output,
the next function in our pipeline.
And it's going to call that function
on the output that we've seen so
far, our accumulated output.
And so we start this off with our initial
value is whatever the first input was,
that's gonna be the first value coming in.
And then we can reduce over
that array of functions to
successively call them on the result of
all of the calls that we have made so far.
So hopefully this goes to show that once
we start getting used to working with
these helper functions like reduce,
and map, and things like that.
And once we start to get really used to
concepts of, okay, how am I gonna conceive
of this as an accumulated value all
of the outputs that I've seen so far.
For example, we can start to get really,
really small little functions.
And that means that there's less
lines of code to get confused by.
And hopefully there's less lines
of codes to introduce bugs in.
So [LAUGH] this is a little challenge to
show how we could do this in a one line
kind of function.
And we could even turn this whole
thing into an arrow function and
put it all on a single
line if we wanna do.
Although sometimes trying to condense
everything into a single line also
hurts readability.
So, buyer beware on that front, okay?
And the next exercise we were trying
to do some snake charming here where we
are transforming data in one shape in
this snake case strings into data and
another shape to camel case strings.
And what you may have found, and
again your mileage may vary, and
this is very much we're starting to
introduce kind of creativity of the actual
practice of functional programming.
Starting to introduce,
how am I gonna think about this in terms
of small single operation functions?
So your mileage may totally vary,
your functions may look very different.
But what I've done is I started out
with that desnake function which splits
up the string into an array of strings
that I'm gonna put back together later.
I've got some other little
single argument functions here.
I can have a function that
capitalizes the first letter.
And here I'm using some JavaScript
string methods to basically do this,
to capitalize just the first
letter of the lowercase string.
And then I can map that function
that capitalizeFirstLetter
function over an array of
strings to capitalize,
excuse me,
I think I have the wrong comment on that.
I can capitalize all of
the words in a string.
Or I can take a a camel case
approach where I'm only
going to capitalize the tail
of an array of strings.
Only gonna capitalize everything
except the first element.
And the first element I'm just gonna
leave unchanged and not capitalize it.
Now I said we're gonna have to
put those things back together so
I can make a function like concatenate
which is going to do a reduce operation on
an array of strings and
add them all together.
Concatenate them together to produce
a single string, so a single value.
So reduce that array of
strings into a single value.
And then I can do something
like create a pipeline where
I'm gonna first pass a string in desnake.
And then the output of that is gonna
be an array of strings which I'm gonna
pass into camelize.
And then that's going to be an array
of strings that I'm going to pass into
concatenate to merge them back
together into a single string again.
And so my snakeToCamel function becomes
that pipeline applied to whatever
snake_case_string I have coming in.
And I've just got some extra cases
there to make sure it's working.
And similarly, and
in this case this is just goes to show
that everything is functions, right?
So I could create a similar
function called snakeToTrain out of
a pipeline of my desnake function,
my capitalizeAll functions.
So I didn't have to write anything new.
I could just reuse those single arguments,
single operation functions.
And then another function I defined called
hyphenate, which is similar to concatenate
where it reduces an array
of strings to a single one.
But in this case,
it's gonna put them together,
joined by a little hyphens by
those little minus symbols.
And so that is going to give me something.
When I call it on a snake_case_string,
it's going to pipeline that string
through all these functions and
I'll end up with a string
in a different case.
So, I'm not gonna go through all of
the different possibilities for this.
But hopefully as a challenge and
a little bit of a mental exercise,
you can go through and try to reuse
those single argument functions and
to create more different types
of transforming case functions.
And again the idea here is that
in functional programming,
we really start to think about our
programs as data transformations.
We start to think about how we can flow
data through a series of operations
to get from the inputs that we have
to the outputs that we want, okay?
So the question is can you do this
with asynchronous operations?
Can you do this with promises or
perhaps with async await?
So that is an amazing
challenge to think about.
How could you write a version
of the pipeline function that is
intended to work with
asynchronous functions,
with functions that might
take a while to complete?
Spoiler alert, yes you can.
And especially the await keywords
make that easier to do without
thinking about the promise chaining and
whatnot.
So that I'm gonna leave as an exercise for
the reader.
How could you change your pipeline
function so that it works with functions
that might not return immediately, but
it might need to wait for the output of?
And how can you make sure that
that output has completed,
has fulfilled its promise before you
pass it in to the next function?
That's a great point.
But yes,
in functional JavaScript we can do this
by awaiting asynchronous functions.